---
layout: post
title: Week 9 - Our Open Source Group Project & Jim Hall's Speaker Session
---

After coming back from spring break, my group has really hit the ground running on our open source project--although we had a bit of mixed feelings at first.

<!--more-->

### My Group's Open Project Experience So Far
Earlier on Tuesday, we hopped on our first call with one of the project leads. During the meeting, we briefly introduced ourselves again, reiterated where our strengths / skills / experiences lie, and the areas we'd like to work in the most (frontend). At the same time, Matt explained the motivation behind the project, shared a high-level picture of their timeline for launch, and asked us about our timeline and time availability for contributing so we could align them. It was definitely a useful call, as we were able to make sure we were all on the same page in terms of understanding our needs and capabilities, and he said that he'd start to assign us to some simple issues when he got the chance. He also invited us as collaborators to their github repo, which we've forked into the course website and cloned onto our personal laptops.

On Wednesday morning, he gave us our first task, which was to put together a flyer for them to use in fundraising and marketing later on. Of course, this wasn't the ideal task we'd be looking for, since while it's within one of the realms that we mentioned (design), it really isn't code related in any way. But it'd be good practice anyway, it would still be contributing to a project, and it is in Figma so we're still honing our frontend development skills in a way. So that's what we worked on during class on Wednesday, and we were able to get that done by the end of class.

Thankfully, the team seemed to really like it; after they got back to us, I realized that despite being non-code related, that first task was probably a great way to get the team to see how competent we were and convince them to trust us with giving us actual responsibility in the more complex areas, like the actual coding part. In their email, they gave us a few edits regarding the text copy in the flyer and then tasked us with a new assignment: doing the front-end dev work for their lobbying page based on mock-ups their design team has made in Figma and back-end data they've scraped already. This was exactly the sort of work we'd been hoping for, so I'm super excited to start tackling that!

Overall, I think our project choice was a great one, since the team seems to be really welcoming, super responsive in their communication, and willing to give us pretty legitimate tasks that make us feel like we're actually making an impact with our contributions.


### This Week's Invited Speaker Session: Jim Hall
This week, we met with Jim Hall, the founder and one of the maintainers of the FreeDOS project. It was pretty clear that he's really passionate about computer science and programming--especially when he shared that he first got experience programming when he was 8 years old. It was also quite inspiring to hear from someone who is now so involved in the computer science space, even coming from a slightly different background. Him saying that his code when he first started the FreeDOS was terrible was really reassuring, as it shows that really anyone can do it if they put their mind to it, since he's clearly come a long way since then.

Something that stood out to me, though, was when Jim mentioned that when Microsoft actually made their code public for the DOS system, that created an obstacle for their contributors, as the code from Microsoft stated that it wasn't allowed to be used as a basis or reference for any other projects / products. That really shined a bit of light on the conflict between open source projects and people's desire to earn profits; in the OpenLibrary talk, we saw that publishers got upset at the open source project, as it cut into their potential profits and in this case, Microsoft might've been worried about potential future competitors with products based on their code or similar code.

Lastly, I liked how he mentioned the importance of learning computer history. It was something I didn't think much about before, but between CSO and this class, I feel like the bits and pieces of history and computer development definitely helps gives context as to how certain tools function and why they're even necessary / helpful in the first place.