---
layout: post
title: Week 14 - Open Source Around Us & Final Project Group Takeaways
---

As we finish the semester, our group is wrapping up our project and our class discussions are starting to look towards applications of open source in our own life.

<!--more-->

### Open Source Around Us
A lot of the projects we brought up in class were things I hadn't heard of but could see myself maybe using one day, like the cooking one or finance one. The cooking one (Tandoor recipes--the project I talked about) was an interesting one because it demonstrates how some projects attempt to earn revenue through freemium plans and also allow for a mixed model where the more advanced features run on their server are available for a fee but if you want to install, run, or develop the software on your own system, you could do that for free too. It was also interesting to see how some of those projects were things we actually had first heard of or used a long time ago, like Blender, but didn't discover it was open source until much more recently. That really just goes to show the extent of which open source impacts our daily lives without use even realizing it. 

Furthermore, I thought it was a good point that regardless of whether or not we actually continue contributing to open source projects in the future, we'll definitely be more cognizant and appreciative of open source projects that we use. Like Ishana mentioned in class, I'd used Lyft dozens of times before but I'd never realized that OpenSourceMaps was the one behind their GPS and maps system.

For me, I'm not sure how likely I'll actually use open source projects or methodology on the job as I start my career. As I mentioned in class, I'm going into investment banking, which is an industry that likes to do things largely based on traditional methods and also values proprietary information and relationships--and often, are willing to pay for efficient access to accurate information (ex: Factset, Pitchbook). Thus, it's hard to imagine the investment banks willing to leave their resources up to the project maintainers' and contributors' pace of working. After all, issues in open source projects could take hours or months to fix, depending on how active the community is, so it's really dependent on other people who might not always prioritize working on the project over other tasks or things in their own lives. However, if the investment banks hire people to sit on the core team of an open source project and help ensure that things are getting implemented in a timely manner, then perhaps this could be a possibility.


### Final Group Project Week
This week, our group reached out to the MAPLE team one last time to let them know that we're planning on ramping off as we approach finals season but that we'd be happy to help with any last-minute or shorter one-off tasks. In the meantime, we're starting to put together our presentation in Figma, which funnily enough, is pretty representative of our experience / familiarity with front-end tools. Overall, this has been a really impactful and enriching experience; not only have we seen our actual edits been pushed to MAPLE's production site, but we've also learned to communicate with an external project team, pick up on some new front-end concepts / tools like Typescript and React, and implement better Git practices (like forking first and pushing to our own branches instead of the main branch).