---
layout: post
title: Week 12 - Project Group Challenges & Christopher Snider Speaker Session
---

This week was pretty eventful, with both a speaker session on an area where open source is significantly improving people's lives in a very direct way and my group making a lot of progress in our contributions towards our project.

<!--more-->

### Speaker Session: Christopher Snider
What's interesting to me is how the application of open source development to the healthcare space brings about both positive and negative effects. On one hand, healthcare is an area with immense pain points, so using open source projects can create a more affordable and accessible solution tailored to those actually involved by tapping into communities of people who are either effected or closer to the actual issues. Yet because the industry is so complex and deals with highly sensitive information, there's also increased scrutiny and criticism towards those same open source projects.

As Christopher mentioned, initially there was a lot of privacy / security concerns since Tidepool was open source; people thought that by having the code online for everyone to see made it more susceptible to data leaks or malicious edits. But in reality, not only is it not a major risk, it's oftentimes the opposite case. In Github, you can have a lot of control over the settings in terms of who's allowed to make changes, unit tests to make sure things aren't broken before changes are accepted, and the full edit / version history is also out there for everyone to see. Thus, it's actually pretty easy to catch if someone does things maliciously, and there are many ways to catch bad edits before they're implemented (and even if there are bad edits, version control helps revert back to previous working iterations).

Something I thought was also really cool was when Christopher talked about the Tidepool project that was built off of the open souce diy glucose pump. It was nice to hear about how people with limited coding experience could just download source code and run that product on their phones, as long as there were clear instructions. It also showed how a passionate community can really push a successful product through development.

### Group Project Challenges
I think the main challenge for us is managing the timeline and the workstreams in tandem with the existing MAPLE development team. For example, they tasked us a couple weeks ago with developing the frontend for a "Lobbying table" feature and integrating it with their backend scraping code. But they hadn't given us clear instructions as to where that backend data or code was located, so we had to start off with using dummy data to build the frontend and place it on the correct webpage. But that was very quick so we are still in a bit of a block, as we're still waiting on them to get back to us on the backend code before we can finish the task.

At the same time, when we realized that the frontend development of Lobbying Tables with dummy data seems rather simple, we assigned one of our members--Grace--to tackle that while the rest of us tried to look through their Github repo for other issues we could help with. This was fine, as there were at least a handful of "good first issues" or things that we saw that seemed pretty manageable. And it was actually really nice, as the maintainer answered our questions in the Github issues discussions very quickly and also reviewed / accepted our pull requests quite fast as well. However, since the only remaining issues in the Github are more advanced issues (such as Google sign-in integration) or longer-term features they'd like to see implemented later on (labelled as "epics"), our other major challenge is just trying to find more issues we can actually work on.

It seems like in both cases, the steps we should / need to take is just to communicate and follow up with the MAPLE team more often, to 1) get instructions as to where the completed backend code is located for the lobbying table features and 2) figure out what other features they'd like us to handle / find "easy" issues to help out with in the meantime.