---
layout: post
title: Week 13 - Open Source in the Business World & Project Group Takeaways
---

Up until now, we've sort of taken a more zoomed-in look at open source projects--like what makes a project open source, how to contribute, best practices, etc. But this week, we took a step back and discussed the different applications of open source approaches and how it's actually seen in a lot of areas around us.

<!--more-->

### Open Source in the Business World
What was interesting to me was when we watched the video in class, we saw how even existing organizations and projects out there that have people who are familiar and experienced with software development can be hesitant towards approaching a new open source methodology. It definitely makes me feel a bit better about looking into tech roles in the future, as I'm actually primarily a business student and am often hesitant to recruit for tech opportunities somewhat because of imposter syndrome--I feel like I'm probably not as skilled as some of my peers who've spent years building their own apps and programs.

I also enjoyed learning about the different open source business models. Before this semester, I had the idea that open source projects were unprofitable / mostly used for non-profit causes, since I thought the software industry was all about IP and proprietary technology, so having code be public exactly undermines that. But it's cool to see how while the underlying code is there for everyone, there can also be paid services and customized solutions that can generate revenues for the business behind it. But my one concern is how these companies can really scale, since offering services for a price would probably require more manual labor--especially the process of tailoring programs to clients' needs--and sort of takes away from the advantage of having a software business (high fixed costs but lower variable costs the more you scale).

Lastly, I thought it was really cool to see that open source was used in the film industry. For some reason, that always seemed like the most heavily private and secretive spaces to me, with a lot of key players competing to have the best original content. But I guess the underlying tools, like editing and rendering, can be made open source, and doing so could benefit the industry as a whole.

### Group Project: What We've Enjoyed & Some Challenges
For the time given, I'm actually pretty proud of our group. We've all individually completed at least a couple of contributions to their frontend that's now been pushed to production and can be seen when actually going to their [production site](https://www.mapletestimony.org/). I think what surprised me here was the actual feeling of accomplishment associated with this type of work. In my previous classes, projects had always been internal; whether it was writing a program or making a web app, it'd always be running a program locally on our laptops or deploying a personal web app through a courant server. But this time, we're actually changing an existing organization's website / software and I think that's just really cool and really makes me feel like I'm having some sort of impact. This applies not only when it's code-related contributions; knowing that the flyer we made has been used during their fundraising and will be utilizied later on in user-facing marketing promotions also brings a sense of pride to me.

But of course, that doesn't mean there aren't / weren't challenges. Again, similar to last week's post, I think the biggest difficulty for us is communication and having to wait on the MAPLE team's directions before we can tackle some things. This week, we'd asked them for more frontend features to help implement, and Matt (the project lead  we've mostly been in contact with) connected us to a design lead, James. However, their frontend / design teams are somewhat large so this is someone we'd never spken to and finding a new time to meet with him requires figuring out our separate availabilities again and causes a bit more lag in the process. We still haven't actually gotten to speak with him yet about the features he has in mind, and thus, we can't actually work on anything new yet until they respond.

Lastly, something surprising is just how welcoming the MAPLE team has been. Every time we email them or send them a deliverable, they make sure to always thank us and let us know how appreciative they are of the work we're doing. They're also super happy to help give us credit, as they recently created a LinkedIn profile for MAPLE and told us that we're welcome to add this volunteer experience to our own profiles if we want.