---
layout: post
title: Week 15 - Final Project Group Presentations
---

On Monday, we completed our group presentation and got to hear from a lot of other groups throughout the week too!

<!--more-->

### Our Group Presentation
In terms of the breakdown, we spent most of our time on creating the deck compared to rehearsing our parts. In making the slides, we first decided on what the overall structure would be, asking questions like did we want slides listing each contribution and how much detail for each one? Should be put the overall challenges and takeaways at the end and be a general group takeaway or focus more on individual ones? We then decided on a theme, which was largely based off the MAPLE website and Figma design assets. Once we were all on the same page, we allocated each person a certain set of slides to complete on their own. After making our own sections, we came together the morning of our presentation and briefly ran through it once or twice. A big reason why we didn't have to rehearse as much was because we'd all known each other for a while now and have worked together at least a couple times over the past 4 years.

In terms of the actual presentation on Monday, I think we did well! I'd say my group is pretty strong at public speaking / presenting overall, so we weren't overly concerned. However, I will say one thing I struggle a little bit with for presenting is maintaining confidence and eye contact, but it was actually easier this time because it felt like a lot of our classmates were listening and even nodding along / smiling, which definitely made me feel better as I kept talking.


### Other Group Presentations
It was really interesting to see how much the presentations differed from group to group. Not only the design and layout of their presentations themselves, but the experience too. It was unfortunate to hear that in some of the larger projects with very complex products, they had a lot of trouble installing the project to begin with; this was very different from my groups' experience, as some of our members had slight issues due to an older version of node but the rest of us having a very seamless experience. It was also crazy seeing that the Scikit-learn group made 61 contributions--that definitely made me feel thankful our group wasn't presenting right after theirs! But jokes aside, the big discrepancy might be because a lot of the nature of their PRs were for documentation (which wasn't really applicable for MAPLE) or bug fixes (which was hard to find for us in our project, as it newly launched and there weren't that many open bug issues we could find) but regardless, I thought that was really impressive. Also, seeing some of the challenges other groups faced (like slow response times and PR approval times) made me feel thankful that we'd chosen a smaller project; some people mentioned getting sniped before they could actually submit a PR, which would make me incredibely frustrated if I'd been already working on an issue for a while, only for someone else to complete it without giving me notice.

I enjoyed hearing about other groups' best moments though! I could definitely relate to when people mentioned they'd get really happy when the maintainers finally accepted their pull request. For me, that was definitely the case for my first PR. I'd taken AIT last semester but I hadn't gotten a chance to apply it in the real world yet so having that PR get accepted without any questions / comments really made me feel like my skills were more tangible and that I sort of proved I'm capable of tackling such tasks.

Also, as a side note, watching the other group presentations definitely made me realize that computer science majors have a veryy different type of humor than business majors haha, but the groups definitely made me chuckle in class so maybe I align with both types...??