---
layout: post
title: Week 10 - Midterm Reflections & Open Source Group Project Update
---

After getting some real tasks, we've made some progress but also encountered what might be our first mini obstacle.

<!--more-->

### Group Project Update
In the past week, we've taken a first step towards implementing the front-end lobbying designs they tasked us with. However, this was also our first major obstacle--communication and response speed. We needed access to their figma mockups to actually start working on the frontend development, and I had raised the point to them a couple days ago that we requested access, but we didn't get any updates on that; perhaps it'd been lost in our intermediary emails regarding the flyers we worked on. So when we did group work on Wednesday in class, we couldn't really go off of anything, since we'd emailed them again letting them know we requested access and were waiting to get it approved. In general, they're very fast at looking over our work or responding to our questions, but it took them a couple of hours that day to get back to us, which in the grand scheme of things, isn't a huge deal, but in the moment, it felt much longer than before and could be an indicator of potential delays in the future.

In the meantime, as we were waiting, we set up the development environment using yarn based on the README file in the team's github repo. Two of our members encountered slight issues with that, but were able to quickly fix it by redownloading node. We also dug around their website and tried to locate the page that would actually hold the new design they were trying to implement, and get a sense of how to organize the backend data, and what the designs would link to. This was helpful in understanding exactly which components we might need, and where to put which pieces of data. Lastly, we looked through their file directory and tried to see where we would put the front-end files, and if we would be using some of their existing components, like the "Table" one.