---
layout: post
title: Week 6 - Open Source Projects At A First Glance
---

## **Part 1: Exploring Open Source Projects**
***
Over the past two weeks, I've gotten a better look at a couple of different projects, some of which turned out to be great potential projects, and some not so much.

<!--more-->

### In-Class Project Evaluation: Python
To start, during the in-class project evaluation activity, my group analyzed Python. Overall, I'd say this would be a pretty good one for beginners, as there is a super comprehensive set of resources and guides on their websites regarding specific instructions on how to contribute, where to find help, some common issues / questions, etc. The maintainers and community both seem very welcoming, offering quick responses and constantly thanking people for their work. However, the one potential risk is that given how Python itself is a programming language, the issues we'd be working on would mostly be fixing the very simple coding bugs under the "easy" label or documentation, since a lot of the more advanced ones are far more complicated and require more extensive knowledge of how building a programming language works. For example, when we tried to describe the latest pull request, we basically had no idea what any of the terms mentioned in the commit message meant.

### Project Evaluations On My Own Time: Font Awesome & NMF App
Two other projects I was considering at first were Font Awesome and NMF app, which I wrote project evaluations for. I mostly chose those projects because I had some personal interest in what the app's purpose was. While I've never used Font Awesome, I do use Figma quite often and often use websites like Noun Project to find icons for my designs, which is a similar resource to Font Awesome, so it'd make it easier for me to suggest new features I'd want to see. Meanwhile, for the NMF app, I've also never used it but out of all the social issues out there, I'd say the environment is something I care more about--I try my best to recycle when I can and am often willing to take the more sustainable option for things, as long as it doesn't require going super out of my way--so I could see myself being more invested in my contributions. Unfortunately, however, it seems that Font Awesome is mostly looking for contributions in terms of idea / feature / icon suggestions, and not as much in the actual code, given that there are really only 3 contributors to their github repo, and there was limited to any resources on their website regarding contributions or communication channels for the developer community. On the other hand, NMF Earth definitely seemed more welcoming towards beginners, labelling some of their issues as "good first issues" and providing installation instructions that help guide newbies a bit more. But even then, there weren't any communication channels I could find, and it seemed contributors still had to take initiative more in terms of figuring out what specific types of contributions they want to make, since the contribution document is helpful but not super extensive (didn't include any specific examples).

### Other Projects that Intrigued Me
Two projects that I didn't personally evaluate but was interested in were Wordpress and VSCode. These two piqued my interest mainly because I personally have used and come across those products before; Wordpress in high school as I had to make a blog for a writing class and VSCode throughout all of this past year in my computer science classes. Glancing at the project evaluations my classmates wrote for those, it seems liked both are pretty welcoming communities with a large number of existing contributors, which means there are definitely a sense of openness towards letting people tackle the existing issues and make changes, and pretty detailed instructions for people to get a better idea of where to start. My main concern, though, is that for VSCode, it's mainly written in Typescript, which is a language I haven't gotten any experience working in before, so it might take more upfront work and learning--although it seems to have some overlap with Javascript, which I am quite comfortable with, so hopefully it isn't a huge issue.


## **Part 2: Things to Look Forward To & Challenges**
***
The things I'm most excited about for working on open source projects is the visibility. No matter what it is I'm working on, I like having a sense of accomplishment and being able to see my work play out either in some way; otherwise, it kind of feels like my hard work was in vain. So I'm excited to be able to contribute to a project and see that change or update being reflected in the real world, especially if it's for fixing a bug in the product or coding part of a new feature. Another thing that would be really cool is if the project I ultimately work on is something I personally use in my daily life. If it's something I use already, then I'm more invested in making it better, so it'd be really nice to look at an app or a website and think to myself, "oh hey, I actually did that" if it's a smoother user experience.

The main challenge I forsee is just being able to figure out what kinds of issues I should tackle. Clearly I should choose ones within my skill level, knowledge, and expertise, but I also don't want to just make documentation updates, so it'll definitely take a while to find that balance. Also, sometimes when you first look at a bug or new feature, it might seem simple, until you start working on it and realize it's a lot more complicated than you originally thought, or require more background knowledge; hopefully, by the end of this semester, I'll be able to analyze the difficulty of an issue after just a quick glance.