---
layout: post
title: Week 1 - Intro to Open Source
---


## **A First Look At Open Source**
***
The first definition that comes to mind when I hear the term "open source" is any project that is available to the public and can have multiple contributors.

Open source projects can be useful, in that it takes advantage of the community, as no individual knows everything. By having multiple contributors, the end product could be of higher quality, achieved more quickly, and more errors can be solved than by an individual software developer. They're also a cheaper way to get things done, as you essentially have access to passionate and free labor. Of course, I could also see greater risk for conflicts, since there's so many people potentially working on the project at once. Since there's less control over the entire process, there's a stronger need for consistent realignments on the ultimate goal and requirements. It might also seem slower from the individual developer's viewpoint, since changes might take longer to get approved if there's more people who have to oversee it.

<!--more-->

I decided to take this class because I've used open source projects in my daily life, but I was curious as to why certain projects were open source and a lot of other ones weren't; are there certain properties of the functionality that make some softwares better suited for open source, or is it more up to the companies that develop it and their need to make money?
<br>
<br>

## **Open Source Projects I Use**
***
**Wikipedia**

Growing up, I remember all my teachers telling us not to rely on Wikipedia as a source, since it's not credible. Yet I found myself constantly referencing it when I wanted to get a quick overview on a topic or even learn an interesting fact about a public figure or event. I've always been amazed at the fact that almost everything I search up has a wikipedia page, since that means there's actually people who know all that information. But seeing that it's open source, it makes a bit more sense, since there could've been thousands of contributors out there helping to write these pages.

**VSCode**

I was actually never a big fan of code editors or IDEs, since they were bulky and took a long time for me to figure out, opting for simple Notepad++ instead for a lot of my computer science classes. But last semester, my professor recommended using VSCode and I figured I'd just give it a try, since I glanced at my friend's screen and it looked nice. But I loved how simple it was to set up, how clear the organization of projects was, and how customizable it was using its plug-ins; now I use it for everything :))

**React**

I learned how to use React during the end of my Applied Internet Technology class last semester, and I thought it was really useful. We'd learned how to build basic web applications beforehand without using any frameworks, which had been fine but using React made things much more dynamic and easier to scale, which I really appreciated.

**MongoDB**

Almost hand in hand with React, I had also first come across MongoDB in my AIT class, but soon used it for other courses as well. So many apps require data and databases, which could be daunting at first, but MongoDB is laid out in a really simple way. I also appreciate how there's a graphical option in the app, and that it ties in nicely with javascript for my web apps by using Mongoose.