---
layout: post
title: Week 7 - Our Open Source Group Project
---

After getting in some practice making small contributions in the past few weeks, I'm excited to start working on a longer-term group project! However, there are definitely still a couple potential risks to consider as we move forward.

<!--more-->

### Selection Process
My group originally came together because we'd all worked together in previous classes and campus organizations before, and we were all initially interested in Wordpress. For me, Wordpress stood out because it'd been a product I'd had personal experience using, so I understood the features better and it felt more tangible to be impacting a website that I came in contact with before and heard of numerous times. However, when we got together on Monday to discuss it, we sort of came to two reasons as to why we might not want to go through with it: 1) the issues didn't seem to be the most interesting (with some being documentation updates, and some just being typo fixes in the frontend display) 2) since Wordpress is a bigger, more established project, our contributions would be helpful but probably won't have the biggest impact. Thus, we decided to look into some smaller potential ideas instead.

That's when we started thinking about government organizations, like city or municipal projects. One of our group members, Grace, is from the suburbs of Boston and she discovered this organization called Code for Boston, which is under the bigger "Code for America" branch, with a purpose of "[addressing] local social and civic challenges through creative uses of technology." After digging around a bit more, we stumbled across Massachusetts Platform for Legislative Engagement (MAPLE), a legislative testimony project through Code for Boston.

While we didn't complete a full written project evaluation, we went through a similar set of motions to analyze whether or not it was a good project for a beginner group. We first took a look at their github repo, and saw that there were at least 150 open issues, of which only several were actually labeled "good first issue" but a lot of their issues that weren't labelled for beginners seemed like things we could tackle too, like conditional rendering on the front-end, polishing some of the design, or allowing admins to delete users in the backend. Maintainers respond quickly to pull requests and sometimes discussions as well. 41 contributors might not seem like the best sign of a welcoming environment at first glance, but given the fact that the project is still small and early on in their development process--since they haven't actually launched yet--it didn't seem like a big concern. Lastly, we took a look through their figma files and websites--and while it's kind of cute, there is definitely room for improvement, at least in terms of front-end website design, so we felt that we could offer some of our expertise there.

Thus, we first joined their Slack channel, then reached out to the main founder in charge to ask for more specific pointers or areas we could help out with, given their specific timeline. So far, they responded offering to hop on a call to onboard us and discuss our goals as well as theirs, but we're still working on figuring out a good time to meet, especially given their busy schedules and our upcoming spring break.

### Hopes & Worries
What drew us the most to MAPLE was that it was a smaller project, so our contributions could probably help them out a lot, which would motivate us, since we would likely feel a bigger sense of fulfillment / accomplishment. We also saw that a large part of their project was front-end work, which we all felt more comfortable with. Furthermore, their github repo mentioned that they were looking to soft-launch in late March, which really excited us because we could potentially be a part of the project's first launch, feeling more engaged and like we were truly a part of their process. Of course, I'm also hoping to get better at taking initiative of noticing potential areas for improvement or new features to be implemented on my own, instead of simply finding issues to fix through the tab on their github repo. Over time, our group also wants to get better at figuring out what kinds of issues we are best suited for based on our experience and skills, which should come naturally with time and practice.

Of course, that's not to say there aren't any risks. The first major risk is that their timeline is extremely fast, with their plan to launch in late March, so it might be hard for them to fully onboard us in time. While they sound very open and welcoming to help in their emails so far, in reality, they may be more hesitant to actually implement our changes if they feel they don't have as much time to oversee and double check our work the closer the deadline approaches. Because their launch date is in March, we're also not entirely sure what their plan will be afterwards, so we may have to try harder to find areas to help out during the rest of the semester. Lastly, in their initial email, it sounds like most of the issues currently are in the back-end, which isn't a huge issue as we do have some Javascript and Python experience, but it just wasn't what we initially really wanted to do, which was figma web design and front-end development.