---
layout: post
title: Week 5 - Mek Guest Speaker Session & Small Contributions
---

## **Part 1: OpenLibrary Guest Speaker Session - Mek**
***
In high school, I used to use the e-library option when borrowing books all the time. They were so much easier to read when I was on the way to school, commuting to music lessons, or travelling on vacation. When I first heard about the Open Library project, I wasn't exactly sure what they did or how it worked, but after attending the guest speaker session, I realized it was very similar to the service I used a lot in the past.

<!--more-->

### Things that Intrigued Me
I feel like books and copyright is such a complicated area to work in, which is why I was impressed that the Open Library project is tackling that topic. I completely understand its purpose, as I do think making books and resources more accessible is important, not only to regular students like me but also people who need research for their work or people living in areas where it's harder to reach a physical library. When Mek explained the idea that there's a limit on the copies available of a digital book (as in, when a digial book is rented, it's treated similarly to when a physical book is rented), I wasn't that surprised, since that was what I'd experienced personally too; I remember constnatly having to put a hold or joining the waitlist for the most popular e-books.

What impressed me the most, though, was how committed Mek and the entire team seemed to be. Not only did he sound super welcoming towards any questions or suggestions for Open Library, he also mentioned that they're undergoing a lawsuit right now. I feel like usually when legal issues occur, project teams might be more reluctant to continue with their work in fear of the risks of losing the lawsuit and having to incur costs. But they're standing their ground, so it seems that the core developers truly believe in the principle of the project and are a very cohesive team.

It was also really cool to learn about the Wayback Machine. I'd never heard of it before, but I could definitely see myself checking it out in my free time, especially if I'm exploring website structure and design. I thought it was especially cool when Mek mentioned that a lot of Wikipedia articles have valid links because of the Wayback Machine, which kind of put into perspective the effects an open source project could have on other products / services, and even other open source projects.

## **Part 2: Personal Small Contributions**
***
So far, I've been focusing on making contributions to the course website. In the past couple weeks, I reported two issues and helped make a pull request to fix one issue. For me, this was the best starting point, since it was mostly slides and documentation, and didn't require too much sifting through code or file structures to look for contribution opportunities. Also, because there were detailed instructions in the "Contributions" slides as to how to help, I knew exactly where to start looking for potential contribution opportunities. 

The contribution I'm most proud of at this given moment would probably be my most recent one, which is where I fixed two typos in the OpenStreetMap activity instructions. While the fix itself was simple, it was my first time forking, committing, and making a pull request to such a big github repo, with so many contributors, and having an actual admin look over my work.

The biggest challenge for me right now is probably just getting more used to making contributions, since I've never really done anything like that before--which is largely why I've just been focusing on our course website. But with that practice, I feel more comfortable now with looking into official open source projects outside of our classroom. Hopefully next week, I'll try to look into issues or potentially even fixing some for OpenStreetMap or Wikipedia.