---
layout: post
title: Week 2 - Codes of Conduct
---

## **Part 1: Code of Conducts**
***
When I was in middle school and high school, I remember having to sign our district's code of conduct forms at the start of every academic year to state that we acknowledge the rules that we should follow. With open source projects, I assume the underlying idea is the same. Having a Code of Conduct can be helpful in notifying potential contributors of the desired behavior so that the overall community is beneficial by creating a safe and welcoming environment for all its members. Other projects besides the Go Project could benefit from having a similar type of document, as contributors could be located all around the world, with very diverse experiences and should know the basic standards for how they should be interacting with each other, and what to do if conflicts arise--which most likely will happen at one point or another.

<!--more-->

### Comparison: Go Project & Contributor Covenant
The main differences between the Go Project's Code of Conduct and the Contributor Covenant is the process for reporting and enforcing violations. While the Contributor Covenant asks members to report directly to the project team, the Go Project asks people to first work it out amongst themselves, and then report to a Project Steward / specialized committee if it doesn't work out. This is probably because they still want healthy conflict but if they told people to directly report issues as soon as they occur, then healthy conflicts and discussions may become discouraged. Furthermore, the Go Project may feel that they want to separate responsibilities between the engineers behind the project and people who are in charge of how the overall project is run, so they prefer project steewards to address conflicts instead of simply having entire project teams handle them.

### Comparison: Eclipse & Go Project
Eclipse also has their own [Code of Conduct](https://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/Community_Code_of_Conduct.php), and their section on reporting and enforcing violations is much more extensive and lengthy than the Go Project's. They might be a more established project, so they feel the need to create a more formal document laying out their expectations, especially if conflicts constantly arise. What I found interesting is that they also had a paragraph about false reporting, which makes me think they've encountered several cases of this in the past, so they chose to include it now. Lastly, they have a specific committee dedicated to Conduct, so I'm assuming Eclipse places a lot of emphasis on how its members interact and want to ensure a smooth and positive experience for all its contributors.

## Part 2: Sugar Labs
***
Sugar Lab's Code of Conduct is a bit similar to the Go Project in that it emphasizes the collaberative nature it wants its community to have, and encourages members to resolve conflicts in a healthy way, rather than simply avoiding conflict altogether. It is based on the [Ubuntu Code of Conduct](https://ubuntu.com/community/code-of-conduct), which is actually licensed to allow others to re-use it for their own projects.

## Part 3: VSCode
***
[VSCode's Code of Conduct](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode) is not its own separate document inside its git repository, but merely a link in its README document. It states that it's adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode), which makes sense given that VSCode is a Microsoft product. Microsoft's Code of Conduct is actually adapted from the Contributor Covenant. The main difference is that it uses the term "community" instead of "project," as there are dozens of projects and products under the Microsoft brand. Another difference is in its Enforcing and Reporting section, where it also encourages members to resolve conflicts on their own first--like the Go Project--before formally reporting to community leaders at Microsoft, which could be because there are so many contributors and the projects are so big that if everyone formally reported the moment an issue arose, things would get way too backlogged.

## Add-On Activity: Firefox Extensions
***
Our team is currently still working on finishing part 5 (making our own extension from scratch) but I've enjoyed the experience so far. I took Applied Internet Technology last semester, where I learned javascript, css, and other web-related concepts, but it was really cool to apply them myself in parts 1 & 2, since we hadn't covered making extensions before. I thought web extensions were always really complicated (like Adblock) so it was eye-opening to realize basic ones actually don't take that long to make on your own. Our group also got along really well, respecting each other's opinions and asking everyone if they agreed before making a decision.