---
layout: post
title: Week 4 - Web Extension Takeaways & Favorite Projects
---

## **Part 1: My Experience**
***
### Key Takeaways
I'd been using chrome extensions like Adblock for years now, but I never thought to create my own extension so working on the browser activity was definitely a unique experience for me. I was able to see how the different moving parts, like the javascript / css files and images folder, worked together to create the extension. Specifically, I learned the purpose of the manifest.json file and how the different components correspond to either metadata about the extension or instructions for Firefox to know which scripts to load.

In terms of our group dynamic, it was also a positive experience overall. While our group faced some minor challenges--like a group member getting sick in the middle--our group as a whole was really responsive, helpful, flexible, and welcoming. We made sure to always ask other members if they were okay with our final decision before going through with it, or prompting others for their thoughts if we noticed that they hadn't been able to talk as much.

<!--more-->

### Contributions and Skills
As I mentioned in my last blog post, I mainly helped with the design / front-end part of the extension and the setup for our open source project.

Since I'm more familiar with using things like Figma, I designed some of the mock-ups that we based our extension on. On a similar note, I also learned a bit about css during the last semester, so I helped with fixing some of the display bugs we encountered. In fact, it was a good way to brush up on my knowledge of css; I had learned the concepts before--in terms of the types of display, positioning, etc. there are and what they do, but implementing those concepts was a lot more complex, especially when there are multiple styles for the same element, and lots of parent / child relationships. Also, my group decided to use React for our extension, which I had gotten exposure to last semester but my experience with it was more brief, so building this extension using the React framework helped me familiarize with it more.

In groups, I realized that I also tend to play more of the facilitator and ideation role. At the start of each meeting, I would usually take the initiative to suggest what we should focus on during the session, and what our overall timeline should look like. When we were brainstorming for the extension itself and deciding which files we needed to include in our repo, I would usually be the first to suggest ideas or come up reasonings for why we should do things one way versus another, to spur discussion.

## **Part 2: Other Groups' Projects**
***
I really enjoyed the Youtube Interface Customizer extension. I feel like their extension was really exhaustive--not only allowing users to change the look of the home page, but also the navigation bar and even the video player itself, which gives them a ton of flexibility with their user experience. The entire project definitely demonstrated the groups' hard work but I was most surprised by the scrubber / progress bar easter-egg-like function, where you could change the circle icon to a Pikachu. That's a feature I'd never thought of before, but I could totally see myself using that in the future. 