---
layout: post
title: Week 3 - Git & Web Extension Activity
---

## **Part 1: Git**
***
Before I ever came across a computer science course, I'd already been using version control-like products in my daily life, like Google Docs. Growing up with so much technology around me, it was something I took for granted--the idea that your changes to a project or document are all saved somewhere, and if something happened and I needed to recover an older version, I could do that with a few clicks of my mouse. Given that, it's strange now looking back, as I actually didn't think of using a version control system for my code until I learned about it in my classes last semester. I remember freaking out when I made an edit that completely messed up my entire program, or accidentally deleted a file from my folder, and had to spend extra time going back and doubling checking I restored my work correctly. Thus, a version control system like Git is extremely useful, and especially integral when working in groups, as there are many changes going on at once and any one of those could mess up the team's progress if the previous versions aren't saved somewhere.

<!--more-->

### Git In-Class Activity
I actually found the in-class activity to be quite useful. In the classes from last semester, I had some practice using Git--one course in which I was uploading only my own work to the course repo and one in which I was working in groups and had to use Git to manage our team's work. Through those, I was able to familiarize myself with the idea of cloning remote repositories, adding files to the staging area, committing to my local repository, and pushing changes to my remote repository. I'd also already set up the authentification / SSH keys, so I didn't have to worry about that during the activity. However, the activity was helpful in clarifying the concepts of upstreams, remote, and forks, as I always thought the definitions seemed really similar and I'd felt discouraged from using those before since I wasn't really quite sure what the differences were. I also thought the way we saw the changes to the upstream show up as a merge conflict when we tried to pull was really helpful in figuring out to actually resolve those conflicts. Last semester, when I'd worked in group projects and encountered a merge conflict, I didn't actually know how to resolve them and usually turned to copy pasting my changes to a different backup file, deleting my previous files, pulling the updated version, and manually adding in my changes again--which was definitely not the efficient way to go about it.

## **Part 2: Web Extension Add-On Activity**
***
Our web extension, Always on Time, is a type of productivity extension that changes the look of the default home page when a new tab is opened. We wanted to display the time and date, as well as provide an aesthetic background, so the user would feel more calm and focused for the day, and be able to check the time and date if they wanted to plan out the rest of their work session / rest of their day.

### Progress & Difficulties
We're mostly finished with our extension, in terms of the basic version, with just displaying time, date, background, and allowing a user-uploaded background.

We'd originally wanted to include some more complex features, like displaying the weather or syncing a user's Google calendar to display their upcoming events for the next 3 hours on the side of the home page. But after looking more into those topics, we realized we'd have some difficulties with implementing that. For example, a lot of weather APIs require subscriptions and we didn't want to pay for that, and Google Calendar would require us to implement some form of account login / authentification that would probably take longer than a week for us to get done. Additionally, we wanted to allow a user to upload a image, that would be set as the background of every new tab that is opened. Unfortunately, currently we are only able to allow a user to set their uploaded image as the background of the current tab, but not of other new tabs that are opened. We realized that to do so, we'd probably need to set up some database management to store their file or work with more back-end stuff like url / routers to actually extract their image and save it, which was something we weren't familiar with and would be difficult to achieve in the current timeline.

Since we used React to implement our extension, it made our website more dynamic, with updating the time and allowing for image uploads, but because not all of us were super familiar with React, it took us longer and thus, we decided to focus on the basic functionalities for now. We also ran into a lot of issues with npm run build, which was most likely due to os / system issues, but were able to navigate it eventually. But if we have more time tonight, we'll try to allow a set of default images for the user to choose from as their background if they don't want to upload one, instead of just a singular default background like we have now.

As a whole though, the experience was positive. Although our schedules didn't align perfectly, everyone was very willing to meet, whether in person or online, and contributed their ideas or would work on the actual coding part.

### Contributions
Since I was more busy during the later half of the past week compared to first half and the week prior, I helped more in the earlier stages of the activity. In part 4, I helped answer and phrase a lot of the answers that we ultimately included in our text file. For part 5, I came up with the underlying idea for our extension and helped hash out the functionalities / features that we should implement. When we met for setting up our repo, I offered ideas as to what to include in our Contributing, Code of Conduct, and README files that Yuri typed out. I also created some mock ups in Figma to base our design off of, as well as fixed some of the front-end display through css and date / time functions in our React app. But Sid had the most familiarity with React and he did a lot of the work in setting up the React framework, figuring out how to allow for user uploading of images, and setting the background. Yuri also contributed in actually typing out all the text / markdown files as we discussed the content, offering ideas throughout our discussions, and making edits to the display / front-end of our project.